#!/bin/bash

facts=(
    "there are currently 42 species of dolphins and seven species of porpoises."
    "a dolphin pregnancy last between nine and 16 months. The mother feeds her offspring on milk. The sons and daughters of resident orcas stay with their maternal family for life."
    "dolphins eat fish, squid and crustaceans. They do not chew they food but may break it into smaller pieces before swallowing."
    "all dolphins have conical-shaped teeth. A Risso's dolphin has 14 while a spinner dolphin can have 240."
    "the orca (killer whale) is the largest dolphin. Hector's dolphin and Franciscana are two of the smallest."
    "the four river dolphin species inhabit the large waterways of Asia and South America."
    "dolphins have an array of vocalisations such as clicks, whistles and squeals which they use for their well-developed communication and echolocation skills."
    "lifespan varies from around 20 years in the smaller dolphin species to 80 years or more for larger dolphins such as orcas."
    "maui's dolphin (a sub-species of the New Zealand dolphin) is the most endangered dolphin. There are less than 50 individuals remaining. Fewer than 10 Vaquitas (a species of porpoise) survive."
    "dolphins are a group of aquatic mammals that belong to the family Delphinidae."
    "There are 90 species of dolphins in the world."
    "dolphins are found in oceans and freshwater rivers around the world."
    "dolphins are highly intelligent and social animals."
    "dolphins are known for their playful behavior."
    "dolphins have been known to help humans in distress."
    "dolphins communicate with each other using a variety of sounds, including whistles and clicks."
    "dolphins can use echolocation to navigate and find food."
    "dolphins can swim at speeds of up to 60 kilometers per hour."
    "dolphins can hold their breath for up to 15 minutes underwater."
    "dolphins are carnivores and eat a variety of fish and squid."
    "dolphins have few natural predators, but some sharks and killer whales will prey on them."
    "dolphins have a streamlined body shape that helps them swim efficiently through the water."
    "dolphins have a blowhole on top of their head that they use to breathe air."
    "dolphins can live up to 50 years in the wild."
    "bottlenose dolphins are the most common and well-known species of dolphin."
    "dolphins are social animals and live in groups called pods."
    "dolphins are known for their complex social behavior, including playing, hunting, and caring for their young."
    "dolphins are not fish, but rather warm-blooded mammals that breathe air."
    "dolphins can jump up to 20 feet in the air."
    "dolphins have a large brain relative to their body size."
    "dolphins are one of the few animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror."
    "dolphins are able to learn and perform a variety of tricks."
    "dolphins have been known to use tools, such as using sponges to protect their snouts while foraging for food."
    "dolphins have a layer of blubber under their skin that helps keep them warm in cold water."
    "dolphins can communicate with each other over long distances using whistles and clicks."
    "dolphins have a strong sense of hearing that allows them to locate prey and navigate through the water."
    "dolphins have excellent eyesight both above and below the water."
    "dolphins are playful and enjoy playing with objects such as seaweed, sticks, and even plastic bags."
    "dolphins are capable of learning and imitating human behavior."
    "some dolphins have been observed using bubbles to create rings and play with them."
    "dolphins are able to sleep with only half of their brain at a time, allowing them to remain alert to danger while resting."
    "dolphins have a complex social hierarchy within their pods."
    "dolphins use body language to communicate with each other, such as tail slapping and breaching."
    "dolphins have a unique whistle that serves as their individual "name"."
    "some dolphins have been observed using tools to hunt, such as using sponges to protect their snouts while foraging for food."
    "dolphins have a strong maternal instinct and care for their young for several years after birth."
    "dolphins have been known to form alliances with other species, such as tuna and pilot whales."
    "dolphins have been observed herding fish into tight schools to make them easier to catch."
    "some dolphins have been known to feed on toxic animals such as pufferfish, using their intelligence to avoid being poisoned."
    "dolphins have a layer of fat under their skin that helps them float in the water."
    "dolphins can sense the electric fields produced by other animals, which helps them locate prey."
    "dolphins have a complex vocal repertoire that allows them to communicate with each other in a variety of ways."
)

index=$(($RANDOM % ${#facts[@]}))

echo ${facts[$index]}
